Okay, I know we all have those fears.
Nonetheless, estimating our work is critically important.
And here are some reasons why.
Enables quality decisions for go/no go.
Should we even be doing this project?
Is there a return on investment, an ROI?
If I spend one hundred thousand dollars, are we going to increase revenue?
Decrease costs?
Improve customer satisfaction?
If not, it may be a no go.
Enhances the setting and managing of customer expectations.
Quality estimates enable you to better manage your customer's
expectations so the customer knows what cost to expect.
Provides a foundation for accurate project costs.
A solid process for creating quality estimates provides the core
foundations for more accurate project costs.
So as you proceed you can better compare actuals with estimates.
Drives high-level project scoping.
Provides the basis for guiding the prioritization of features to implement,
which is project scoping.
Features such as invoicing, reporting, and ecommerce.
These are not detailed at this time,
but high-level features with early estimates to help you
prioritize what features to implement first.
Here are a few more important outcomes of a quality estimation process.
Improves quality of prioritization, but does it a little different this time.
Now that you know what things really take to do,
you can better prioritize and down-select your tasks.
Influences which features will be part of the next release.
So, we did high-level prioritization in the previous slide and in this case,
now that we get more detailed, we can do further prioritization.
Focuses developers on planned and estimated tasks.
Estimates are driven at a lower level by tasks.
Tasks get assigned, developers only work on assigned tasks.
This is very,
very important in focusing work and ensuring that you can
actually meet the estimates that you laid out.
Essential to manage and staff resources.
In order to effectively manage budgets, staff,
and the allocation of resources for a project,
you need a quality estimate.
Should you hire people when you really don't need them
because you padded your estimate?
No, you don't want to do that certainly.
Foundation for realistic project schedule.
All customers want schedules.
So without solid estimates to lay out the schedule,
you'll be unable to meet any sort of schedule requirements for your customer.
The project triangle dilemma is composed of the following three elements.
First, scope.
What the customers want the system to do.
Second, schedule.
When will your customers need their new system?
Third, cost estimate.
That's where you come in.
What can they afford?
Or are willing to spend?
The three of these are the project triangle dilemma.
So as project managers we are striving for user satisfaction.
User satisfaction is when the system meets the requirements,
the scope, at a reasonable cost, the estimate,
and is delivered when needed, schedule.
And lastly, in the middle, it's a quality product.
So all of that together is user or customer satisfaction and
your estimation skills is a very important key component to
satisfying your customer's needs.
So what is it that you need to make a good estimate?
You need a definition of work.
Your requirements or project definition document.
And in the following slide we'll go more into detail of just
what a project definition document is.
You also need management support.
Is your management supportive of you?
Educate your management on the return and investment for spending
adequate time developing quality estimates.
And don't be shy about it.
Knowledge of available resources for the project.
What resources may be at your disposal?
Such as developers, consultants, subject matter experts for example,
that will help you build your estimate.
Remember, you don't know it all.
Time to build an adequate and accurate estimate.
Allocate enough time, proportional to the size of the project effort.
An estimation process.
In fact, your estimating process.
With a solid process of your own you will succeed at
creating and improving your estimation skills. And that is just what we'll be doing in the next modules.